Metrics Best Practices (#126)
NASA-AMMOS/slim: docs/guides/software-lifecycle/metrics/README.md

```

**To Stop Services:**
1. Navigate to the directory containing your `docker-compose.yml` file (where you ran the above command).
2. Run the following command to gracefully stop all containers defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file:
    ```bash
    docker-compose down
    ```

**To Restart Services:**
1. Navigate to the directory containing your `docker-compose.yml` file.
2. Run the following command to start containers for services defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file:
    ```bash
    docker-compose up -d
    ```
   The `-d` flag runs containers in detached mode, allowing them to run in the background.

---

## Step-by-Step Configuration Guide

1. Run the **[Quick Start](#quick-start)** steps above.
2. Once you have a working DevLake instance, we recommend going through DevLake's [official start guide](https://devlake.apache.org/docs/Overview/Introduction/#2-configuring-data-source) step-by-step, beginning with the data sources section. 

There are two additional topics we'd like to emphasize. Our recommendations for data sources and metrics to collect.

> ### Recommended Data Sources

Reviewer: @ddalton-jpl - I've added this section for you to fill out based on your actual use of DevLake. Which minimum data sources should we recommend to teams to install?

We recommend, at a minimum, connecting the following data sources (see the DevLake docs on [configuring data sources](https://devlake.apache.org/docs/Overview/Introduction#2-configuring-data-source) for further assistance):
   - Source code repository, i.e. GitHub, GitLab
     - Example: see guide for [GitHub configuration](https://devlake.apache.org/docs/v0.20/Configuration/GitHub)
   - Issue ticket tracker, i.e. JIRA or GitHub
   - Build tool, i.e. Jenkins or GitHub Actions
   - TBD

> ### Recommended Metrics to Collect

Reviewer: @ddalton-jpl - I've added this section for you to fill out based on your actual use of DevLake. Which minimum metrics (or dashboards) should we recommend teams to utilize?

# Metrics

<pre align="center">A Comprehensive Guide for Setting up and Configuring Metrics Tracking</pre>

> 

Reviewer: Do we have a good screenshot we can insert here? For reference? Perhaps a high-level anonymized example from a project?

---

## Quick Start

To quickly deploy DevLake on one of your servers or locally for testing, we've developed a convenient 1-step command. Please ensure Docker is running on your system before executing this command.

The purpose of this script is to automate the installation process DevLake recommends [here](https://devlake.apache.org/docs/GettingStarted/DockerComposeSetup). The script does the following:

- Checks for necessary software: ensures you have Docker and docker-compose installed to run DevLake.
- Downloads required files: automatically retrieves setup files if they're not already present on your system.
- Prepares setup files: adjusts file permissions and sets up the necessary environment variables for DevLake.
- Secures the setup: generates a unique encryption key for data security.
- Starts DevLake: uses Docker to initialize the DevLake application in the background and guides you to visit a web address to start using DevLake for data analysis and viewing dashboards.

**Copy and Paste the Below Command in Your Terminal:**

```bash
cd /path/to/your/chosen/deployment/directory

> /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ddalton-jpl/slim/issue-117/docs/guides/software-lifecycle/metrics/metrics-starter-kit/install_devlake.sh)"

Reviewer: Can you predict what the final URL would be? Let's put that in as the final commit before merge.

```bash
cd /path/to/your/chosen/deployment/directory
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NASA-AMMOS/slim/main/docs/guides/software-lifecycle/metrics/metrics-starter-kit/install_devlake.sh)"
```

**To Stop Services:**

1. Navigate to the directory containing your `docker-compose.yml` file (where you ran the above command).
2. Run the following command to gracefully stop all containers defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file:

    ```bash
    docker-compose down
    ```

**To Restart Services:**

1. Navigate to the directory containing your `docker-compose.yml` file.
2. Run the following command to start containers for services defined in the `docker-compose.yml` file:

    ```bash
    docker-compose up -d
    ```

   The `-d` flag runs containers in detached mode, allowing them to run in the background.

---

## Step-by-Step Configuration Guide

1. Run the **[Quick Start](#quick-start)** steps above.
2. Once you have a working DevLake instance, we recommend going through DevLake's [official start guide](https://devlake.apache.org/docs/Overview/Introduction/#2-configuring-data-source) step-by-step, beginning with the data sources section.

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a step 3, which points to documentation on how to _export_ a report? Maybe include a sentence about something like "although DevLake requires a server to be run on, we recommend exporting dashboard results to a report file which you can share with your development community through discussion boards or under a `/metrics` sub-folder within your repository."

The purpose of this script is to automate the installation process DevLake recommends [here](https://devlake.apache.org/docs/GettingStarted/DockerComposeSetup). The script does the following:

- Checks for necessary software: ensures you have Docker and docker-compose installed to run DevLake.
- Downloads required files: automatically retrieves setup files if they're not already present on your system.
- Prepares setup files: adjusts file permissions and sets up the necessary environment variables for DevLake.
- Secures the setup: generates a unique encryption key for data security.
- Starts DevLake: uses Docker to initialize the DevLake application in the background and guides you to visit a web address to start using DevLake for data analysis and viewing dashboards.

**Copy and Paste the Below Command in Your Terminal:**

```bash
cd /path/to/your/chosen/deployment/directory
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NASA-AMMOS/slim/main/docs/guides/software-lifecycle/metrics/metrics-starter-kit/install_devlake.sh)"

> ```

Reviewer 2: I would add a statement her to indicate that the next steps are defined in ## Step-by-Step Configuration Guide below. Otherwise it is kinda unclear.

- [GitHub](https://devlake.apache.org/docs/v0.20/Configuration/GitHub)

### Recommended Metrics to Collect

See [this list](https://devlake.apache.org/docs/Metrics) of metrics on the DevLake documentation guide for why certain metrics are important and how to collect them. As a minium, we recommend the following metrics should be collected for your projects:

- [Change Failure Rate](https://devlake.apache.org/docs/Metrics/CFR): *"The percentage of changes that were made to a code that then resulted in incidents, rollbacks, or any type of production failure."*
- [Lead Time for Changes](https://devlake.apache.org/docs/Metrics/LeadTimeForChanges): *"The median amount of time for a code change to be deployed into production."*

---

## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

- **Q:** How do I customize the DevLake Quick Start script for more functionality?
- **A:** If you have already provided DevLake with a data source, you can further configure your dashboard by following [this guide](https://devlake.apache.org/docs/Configuration/Dashboards/GrafanaUserGuide). Use simple queries to gather the information you need.

> 

Reviewer: Could we support the answer to one more question here?

**Q:** How do I export an existing DevLake dashboard to a PDF (or other formatted) file from the command-line, without having to launch DevLake's GUI? I'd like to create an exportable metrics dashboard that can be quickly posted to a Wiki or GitHub for dissemination.

Author: @riverma I found a tool that may serve this use case. https://github.com/IzakMarais/reporter

Reviewer: Very nice @ddalton-jpl - have you tested this tool? If you recommend it I suggest adding a note to that in your guide FAQ.

> <pre align="center">A Comprehensive Guide for Setting up and Configuring Metrics Tracking</pre>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<pre align="center">A Guide for Configuring and Deploying Software Lifecycle Metrics Tracking.</pre>
```

![slim-dashboard](../../../../static/img/slim-dashboard-devlake.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Example Metrics Dashboard using Apache DevLake*
```
